federalist 43
the same subject continued the powers
conferred by the constitution further
considered
for the independent journal madison
to the people of the state of new york
the fourth class comprises the following
miscellaneous powers
one a power to promote the progress of
science and useful arts
by securing for limited time to authors
and inventors
the exclusive right to their respective
writings and discoveries
the utility of this power will scarcely
be questioned the copyright of authors
has been solemnly adjudged in great
britain to be a right of common law
the right to useful inventions seems
with equal reason to belong to the
inventors
the public good fully coincides in both
cases with the claims of individuals
the states cannot separately make
effectual provisions for either of the
cases and most of them have anticipated
the decision of this point by laws
passed at the instance of congress
2. to exercise exclusive legislation in
all cases whatsoever
over such district not exceeding 10
miles square as may by secession of
particular states and the acceptance of
congress become the seat of the
government of the united states
and to exercise like authority over all
places purchased by the consent of the
legislatures of the states in which the
same shall be
for the erection of forts magazines
arsenals dockyards and other needful
buildings
the indispensable necessity of complete
authority at the seat of government
carries its own evidence with it it is a
power exercise by every legislature of
the union
i might say of the world by virtue of
its general supremacy
without it not only the public authority
might be insulted and its proceedings
interrupted with impunity
but a dependence of the members of the
general government on the state
comprehending the seat of the government
for protection in the exercise of their
duty might bring on the national
councils an imputation of awe
or influence equally dishonorable to the
government and dissatisfactory to the
other members of the confederacy
this consideration has the more weight
as the gradual accumulation of public
improvements at the stationary residence
of the government would be both too
great a public pledge to be left in the
hands of a single state
and would create so many obstacles to a
removal of the government as still
further to abridge its necessary
independence
the extent of this federal district is
sufficiently circumscribed to satisfy
every jealousy of an opposite nature
and as it is to be appropriated to this
use with the consent of the state
seating it
as the state will no doubt provide in
the compact for the rights and the
consent of the citizens inhabiting it
as the inhabitants will find sufficient
inducements of interest to become
willing parties to the session
as they will have had their voice in the
election of the government which is to
exercise authority over them as a
municipal legislature for local purposes
derived from their own suffrages will of
course be allowed them
and as the authority of the legislature
of the state and of the inhabitants of
the seated part of it to concur in the
session
will be derived from the whole people of
the state in their adoption of the
constitution
every imaginable objection seems to be
obviated
the necessity of a like authority over
forts magazines etc
established by the general government is
not less evident
the public money expended on such places
and the public property deposited in
them requires that they should be exempt
from the authority of the particular
state
nor would it be proper for the places on
which the security of the entire union
may depend to be in any degree dependent
on a particular member of it
all objections and scruples are here
also obviated by requiring the
concurrence of the states concerned in
every such establishment
3. to declare the punishment of treason
but no attainder of treason shall work
corruption of blood or forfeiture except
during the life of the person attained
as treason may be committed against the
united states the authority of the
united states ought to be enabled to
punish it
but as newfangled and artificial
treasons have been the great engines by
which violent factions the natural
offspring of free
government have usually wreaked their
alternate malignity on each other
the convention have with great judgment
opposed a barrier to this peculiar
danger by inserting a constitutional
definition of the crime fixing the proof
necessary for conviction of it and
restraining the congress even in
punishing it
from extending the consequences of guilt
beyond the person of its author
4. to admit new states into the union
but no new state shall be formed or
erected within the jurisdiction of any
other state
nor any state be formed by the junction
of two or more states or parts of states
without the consent of the legislatures
of the state's concern
as well as of the congress in the
articles of confederation no provision
is found on this important subject
canada was to be admitted of right on
her joining in the measures of the
united states
and the other colonies by which were
evidently meant the other british
colonies at the discretion of nine
states
the eventual establishment of new states
seems to have been overlooked by the
compilers of that instrument
we have seen the inconveniences of this
omission and the assumption of power
into which congress have been led by it
with great propriety therefore has the
new system supplied the defect
the general precaution that no new state
shall be formed without the concurrence
of the federal authority and that of the
state's concern
is consonant to the principles which
ought to govern such transactions
the particular precaution against the
erection of new states by the partition
of a state without its consent
quiets the jealousy of the larger states
as that of the smaller is quieted by a
like precaution against a junction of
states without their consent
5. to dispose of and make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the
territory or other property belonging to
the united states with a proviso that
nothing in the constitution shall be so
construed as to prejudice any claims of
the united states or of any particular
state
this is a power of very great importance
and required by consideration
similar to those which show the
propriety of the former
the proviso annexed is proper in itself
and was probably rendered absolutely
necessary by jealousies and questions
concerning the western territory
sufficiently known to the public
6. to guarantee to every state in the
union republican form of government to
protect each of them against invasion
and on application of the legislature or
of the executive when the legislature
cannot be convened
against domestic violence in a
confederacy founded on republican
principles and composed of republican
members
the superintending government ought
clearly to possess authority to defend
the system against aristocratic or
monarchical innovations
the more intimate the nature of such a
union may be the greater interest have
the members in the political
institutions of each other
and the greater right to insist that the
forms of government under which the
compact was entered into should be
substantially maintained
but a right implies a remedy and where
else could the remedy be deposited
then where it is deposited by the
constitution governments of dissimilar
principles and forms have been found
less adapted to a federal coalition of
any sort than those of a kindred nature
as the confederate republic of germany
says montesquieu
consists of free cities and petty states
subject to different princes
experience shows us that it is more
imperfect than that of holland than
switzerland
greece was undone he adds as soon as the
king of macedon obtained a seat among
the amphitheans
in the latter case no doubt the
disproportionate force as well as the
monarchical
form of the new confederate had its
share of influence on the events
it may be possibly asked what need there
could be of such a precaution and
whether it may not become a pretext for
alterations in the state governments
without the concurrence of the states
themselves
these questions admit of ready answers
if the interposition of the general
government should not be needed
the provision for such an event will be
a harmless superfluity only in the
constitution
but who can say what experiments may be
produced by the caprice of particular
states by the ambition of enterprising
leaders or by the intrigues and
influence of foreign powers
to the second question it may be
answered that if the general government
should interpose by virtue of this
constitutional authority
it will be of course bound to pursue the
authority
but the authority extends no further
than to a guarantee of a republican form
of government
which supposes a pre-existing government
of the form which is to be guaranteed
as long therefore as the existing
republican forms are continued by the
states they are guaranteed by the
federal constitution
whenever the states may choose to
substitute other republican forms they
have a right to do so
and to claim the federal guarantee for
the latter the only restriction imposed
on them
is that they shall not exchange
republican for anti-republican
constitutions
a restriction which it is presumed will
hardly be considered as a grievance
a protection against invasion is due
from every society to the parts
composing it
the latitude of the expression here used
seems to secure each state not only
against foreign hostility but against
ambitious or vindictive enterprises of
its more powerful neighbors
the history both of ancient and modern
confederacies proves that the weaker
members of the union ought not to be
insensible to the policy of this article
protection against domestic violence is
added with equal propriety
it has been remarked that even among the
swiss cantons which
properly speaking are not under one
government provision is made for this
object and the history
of that league informs us that mutual
aid is frequently claimed and afforded
and as well by the most democratic as
the other cantons
a recent and well-known event among
ourselves has warned us to be prepared
for emergencies of a like nature
at first view it might seem not to
square with the republican theory to
suppose either that a majority have not
the right
or that a minority will have the force
to subvert a government
and consequently that the federal
interposition can never be required but
when it would be improper
but theoretic reason in this as in most
other cases must be qualified by the
lessons of practice
why may not illicit combinations for
purposes of violence be formed as well
by a majority of a state
especially a small state as by a
majority of a county
or a district of the same state and if
the authority of the state ought in the
latter case to protect the local
magistracy
ought not the federal authority and the
former to support the state authority
besides there are certain parts of the
state constitutions which are so
interwoven with the federal constitution
that a violent blow cannot be given to
one without communicating the wound to
the other
insurrections in a state will rarely
induce a federal interposition
unless the number concerned in them
bears some proportion to the friends of
government
it will be much better that the violence
in such cases should be repressed by the
superintending power
than that the majority should be left to
maintain their cause by a bloody and
obstinate contest
the existence of a right to interpose
will generally prevent the necessity of
exerting it
is it true that force and right are
necessarily on the same side in
republican governments
may not the minor party possess such a
superiority of pecuniary resources of
military talents and experience or of
secret suckers from foreign powers as
we'll render it superior also in an
appeal to the sword
may not a more compact and advantageous
position turn the scale on the same side
against a superior number so situated as
to be less capable
of a prompt and collected exertion of
its strength nothing can be more
chimerical than to imagine that in a
trial of actual force
victory may be calculated by the rules
which prevail in a census of the
inhabitants
or which determine the events of an
election may it not happen and find that
the minority of citizens may become a
majority of persons by the accession of
alien residents
of a casual concourse of adventurers or
of those whom the constitution of the
state has not admitted to the rights of
suffrage
i take no notice of an unhappy species
of population abounding in some of the
states who
during the calm of regular government
are sunk below the level of men
but who in the tempestuous scenes of
civil violence may emerge into the human
character and give a superiority of
strength to any party with which they
may associate themselves
in cases where it may be doubtful on
which side justice lies
what better umpires could be desired by
two violent factions flying to arms and
tearing a state to pieces than the
representatives of confederate states
not heeded by the local flame to the
impartiality of judges they would unite
the affection of friends
happy would it be if such a remedy for
its infirmities could be enjoyed by all
free governments
if a project equally effectual could be
established for the universal peace of
mankind
should it be asked what is to be the
redress for an insurrection pervading
all the states
and comprising a superiority of the
entire force though not a constitutional
right
the answer must be that such a case as
it would be without the compass of human
remedies
so it is fortunately not within the
compass of human probability
and that is a sufficient recommendation
of the federal constitution that it
diminishes the risk of a calamity for
which no possible constitution can
provide a cure
among the advantages of a confederate
republic enumerated by montesquieu an
important one is that should a popular
insurrection happen in one of the states
the others are able to quell it should
abuses creep into one part
they are reformed by those that remain
sound
seven to consider all debts contracted
and engagements entered into before the
adoption of this constitution
as being no less valid against the
united states under this constitution
than under the confederation
this can only be considered as a
declaratory proposition
and may have been inserted among other
reasons for the satisfaction of the
foreign creditors of the united states
who cannot be strangers to the pretended
doctrine that a change in the political
form of civil society has the magical
effect of dissolving its moral
obligations
among the lesser criticism which have
been exercised on the constitution
it has been remarked that the validity
of engagements ought to have been
asserted in favor of the united states
as well as against them and in the
spirit which usually characterizes
little critics the omission has been
transformed and magnified into a plot
against the national rights
the authors of this discovery may be
told what few others need to be informed
of that as engagements are in their
nature reciprocal
an assertion of their validity on one
side necessarily involves a validity on
the other side
and that as the article is merely
declaratory the establishment of the
principle in one case
is sufficient for every case they may be
further told that every constitution
must limit its precautions to dangers
that are not altogether imaginary
and that no real danger can exist that
the government would dare with or even
without this constitutional declaration
before it to remit the debts justly due
to the public on the pretext here
condemned
eight to provide for amendments to be
ratified by three-fourths of the states
under two exceptions only that useful
alterations will be suggested by
experience could not but be foreseen
it was requisite therefore that a mode
for introducing them should be provided
the mode preferred by the convention
seems to be stamped with every mark of
propriety
it guards equally against that extreme
facility which would render the
constitution too mutable and that
extreme difficulty which might
perpetuate its discovered faults
it moreover equally enables the
government and the state governments to
originate the amendment of errors as
they may be pointed out by the
experience on one side or on the other
the exception in favor of the equality
of suffrage in the senate
was probably meant as a palladium to the
residuary sovereignty of the states
implied and secured by that principle of
representation in one branch of the
legislature
and was probably insisted on by the
states particularly attached to that
equality
the other exception must have been
admitted on the same considerations
which produce the privilege defended by
it
nine the ratification of the conventions
of nine states shall be sufficient for
the establishment of this constitution
between
the states ratifying the same this
article speaks for itself
the express authority of the people
alone could give due validity to the
constitution
to have required the unanimous
ratification of the thirteen states
would have subjected the essential
interests of the whole to the caprice or
corruption of a single member
it would have marked a want of foresight
in the convention which our own
experience would have rendered
inexcusable
two questions of a very delicate nature
presented themselves on this occasion
1. on what principle the confederation
which stands in the solemn form of a
compact among the states can be
superseded without the unanimous consent
of the parties to it
2. what relation is to subsist between
the 9 or more states ratifying the
constitution and the remaining few who
do not become parties to it
the first question is answered at once
by referring to the absolute necessity
of the case
to the great principle of
self-preservation to the transcendent
law of nature
and of nature's god which declares that
the safety and happiness of society are
the objects at which all political
institutions aim
and to which all such institutions must
be sacrificed
perhaps also an answer may be found
without searching beyond the principles
of the compact itself
it has been heretofore noted among the
defects of the confederation that in
many of the states it had received no
higher sanction than a mere legislative
ratification
the principle of reciprocality seems to
require that its obligation on the other
states should be reduced to the same
standard
a compact between independent sovereigns
founded on ordinary acts of legislative
authority
can pretend to no higher validity than a
league or treaty between the parties
it is an established doctrine on the
subject of treaties that all the
articles are mutually conditions of each
other
that a breach of any one article is a
breach of the whole treaty
and that a breach committed by either of
the parties absolves the others
and authorizes them if they please to
pronounce the compact violated
and void should it unhappily be
necessary to appeal to these delicate
truths for a justification for
dispensing with the consent of
particular states to a dissolution of
the federal pact
will not the complaining parties find it
a difficult task to answer the
multiplied and important infractions
with which they may be confronted
the time has been when it was incumbent
on us all to veil the ideas which this
paragraph exhibits
the scene is now changed and with it the
part which the same motives dictate
the second question is not less delicate
and the flattering prospect of its being
merely hypothetical forbids an
over-curious discussion of it
it is one of those cases which must be
left to provide for itself
in general it may be observed that
although no political relation can
subsist between the assenting and
dissenting states
yet the moral relations will remain
uncanceled the claims of justice both on
one side and on the other will be in
force
and must be fulfilled the rights of
humanity must in all cases be duly and
mutually respected
whilst considerations of a common
interest and above all the remembrance
of the endearing scenes which are past
and the anticipation of a speedy triumph
over the obstacles to reunion will
it is hoped not urge in vain moderation
on one side
and prudence on the other publius